President Biden arriving in Italy ahead
of the start of this year's G7 Summit
it's a meeting that's likely to have a
serious and subdued
tone that's because since the seven
leaders last met Ukraine has not as
they'd all hoped strengthened its hand
against Russia in a war that's gone on
for nearly 2 and a half
years but even higher on their agenda
the war on Gaza all the G7 leaders
initially supported Israel's right to
self defense but with a death toll of
more than 37,000 Palestinians that
support is increasingly reluctant
experts believe it's damaged the g7's
moral Authority the G7 does for many
people feel increasingly less relevant
less reflective of of power around the
world um much more of a club that's not
necessarily got the uh legitimacy that
it used that it once had and you know
addon double standards and hypocrisy and
people you know dying um in at at scale
in Gaza and it's a it's a very gloomy
outlock the seven leaders are the same
ones who attended the last Summit in the
Japanese city of Hiroshima but six of
the seven are now facing serious
political pressures at home in France
and the UK elections are due in weeks
and the US vote is now less than 4
months away after a strong showing for
her right-wing party and the European
elections the one leader whose fortunes
appear to be rising is the host Georgia
Maloney the Italian Prime Minister is
bringing a record number of 10 guest
countries to this year's G7 that's in
part because she wants to focus on the
issue of migration but experts believe
she's also trying to keep the G7
relevant at a time when its
self-declared role at the Pinnacle of
world affairs seems less certain than
ever James Bay Al jazer pulia Italy
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from Al jazer